## A Sheffield childhood

This narrative was dictated and recorded by Albert, Mum's second husband, about his grim childhood in Yorkshire. Mum later transcribed it. I think there are some more recordings but I have to find them.

<hr>
In 1927 a tragedy happened in my life, when my Mother died in childbirth. My Mother already had four children, there was Nellie aged eight and Hettie aged six the two oldest girls. Then there was myself, the eldest boy aged four and Teddy who was two years old. We lived in Conisborough which is outside Sheffield on the eastern side. My Father was a miner at that time and we lived in a miners house which was a tied house. I remember we had some happy times in that house. It was quite a large house, very sparsely furnished because we were very poor. There was only lino on the floor and the stairs were bare but my Mother used to scrub them so my Father boasted that we could eat our dinner off them.  Nellie, being the eldest used to boss us around. Once when my Mother was out, a load of coal was delivered, my Father being a miner used to have an allowance of free coal, we couldn't get out of the door because Nellie couldn't reach the latch, so she pushed me out of the window onto the heap of coal and sent me down to the village shop where Mother was doing her shopping. She didn't think much to it when I arrived at the shop covered in black after scrambling down the heap of coal. But anyway I didn't suffer for it, she was a very tolerant person, I never knew her shout or scold and she never struck the children, and in those days, rather strangely, my Father never thrashed us.

I have very few other memories of that time but I do remember the night before she died. She huffed and puffed around putting us to bed and I know her sister, my Aunty Annie, was with her. She made a remark which my Aunt told me about later. She said "I have washed all my children and left them in the hands of God". I don't think God was very alert to the message actually. After that I can remember being in a carriage drawn by horses with black plumes with my Father and my sisters who were crying so I cried too without really knowing why. At the age of four it must have been difficult to understand what the death of my Mother meant. The church was large, and empty apart from us and I was puzzled by what seemed to be an offensive man who kept telling us to stand up and sit down and who frightened me. My sister Nellie says my Mothers family were there but I don't remember.. I think she was buried in a paupers grave.

After my Mother died my Father got rid of all the children except me. He put Hetty and Nellie into a Dr Barnado's Home in Pitsmoor Park road Sheffield.  I remember going to this house with my Father and the two girls and we children were left in a room to play while he went off with a gentleman. When he came back he took me away and the two girls were left there. I was very peeved and upset because I wanted to stay with them. He said no you can't stay with them you have got to come  with me. So I was crying and he dragged me away by the scruff of the neck and that was the last I saw of my sisters for many years. It was during the war that I next saw Hetty when she came to live in Sheffield but I didn't see Nellie again until I was in my forties. My brother Ted went to live with my Mothers parents for a few years until they could no longer afford to keep him. They lived in a place called Stepney Row which was in Park district of Sheffield and they lived side by side with my Woodhead grandparents in what they called in  those days "yards", which meant the houses were sort of terraced and each terrace had a couple of cottages on it. At the bottom of the Row were a line of outside privies. They are all gone now.

The baby was adopted by a Mrs Chatterton who lived near my grandparents.  Mrs Chatterton died soon after because she suffered terrible burns when she stood in front of the fire and her dress caught fire. Her daughter then brought my sister up and she had no time for the Woodheads so she distanced herself from us, and although I did see my sister once or twice we gradually lost touch.

The time between the age of four and five I can't remember much about. We seemed to move around a bit, living in one room flats if you can call them that, I think they used to call them rooms. We slept on the floor and my Father did the cooking on a Primus.  Sometimes I can remember a woman there but I didn't know who she was at that time. There was something wrong with her because he was putting poultices somewhere on her over a period of time.

The next thing I remember we were in a place called Leeds (I found that out later).  We were outside a house with an old model T Ford lorry and my Father had his brother with him and they were fighting with a man I didn't know.  They pushed him down into the cellar and locked him in while they took all his furniture and his wife whom I later found was to be my stepmother. She left her husband who was a Salvation Army major, and her two children. Many years later my Uncle told me that was the worst day's work he had ever done.

I remember my Father getting a house in Sheffield. It was empty and we were killing all the blasted centipedes that were running around in the kitchen. The lady next door used to look after me, and there was just my Father and me. He said to me one day that I had got a new Mother coming and of course that did not thrill me one bit, I was quite happy as I was. Then the lady next door told me you have got a new Mother coming Albert. My Father had met this woman during the war in France when he was in the army and she was in the WAAF or whatever they called them then.  After the war she married the Salvation Army major and my Father married my Mother whom he had known all his life because they lived next door to each other. When my Mother died he found this woman again and she left her husband to come to live with him. They came down the yard, I was in the house next door and that neighbour took me out to see her. She said hello and all that rubbish, and sweet-talked me, but I didn't think much of it. We had some fish and chips and then I was put to bed. In those days we only had one bed and one bedroom and an attic. I used to sleep with my Father but when she came I slept on the edge and one morning I found myself at the bottom of the bed What they did then was to get another bed which they put inthe attic and I slept there.  That was the beginning of my isolation.

<hr>
I came to know this woman as Ma Bailey but I never called her Mother.  She wasn't very nice.  She was very handy with her fists.  I know I turned up at school once or twice with a black eye and notes got sent to her, but I don't think anything was done about it.  They would ask me how I got the black eye, well I didn't know I had got a black eye, I never looked in  a mirror, in fact there wasn't a mirror around for me to look in, so I couldn't see whether I had a black eye or a black face or whether I was clean. That's how it was in those days The rag I washed with was so dirty and I had to dry myself on a piece of towel which hung by the kichen sink and that was slimey with dirt.  Apart from being handy with her fists and hands she was into all sorts of herbal potions.  She used to give me a sort of tea and I didn't realise what it was until, many years later I had some senna tea and the taste brought it all back to me and I realised what she had given me. She would put milk and sugar in it, to disguise the taste I suppose, but I didn't like it. I was given a large pot of it with the usual two slices of bread and margarine, which was my staple diet.

There was no toilet upstairs and if I wanted to go to the loo, which was about 20 yards away at the bottom of the yard, I used to have to shout, "I want to go to the toilet, I want to go to the toilet". But they often didn't hear me or maybe they didn't want to bother with me. Once when she gave me this stuff I wanted to go urgently but I couldn't get her to hear me and it all came out on the floor. When my Father came home he pushed my face in it and made me clear it up it was, disgusting, by the time I had cleared it up it had happened again. After that I was given a bucket, which was an improvement. When I did go down I had to take it down and empty it. But if people were around I wasn't allowed to empty it I had to wait until nightime so the neighbours wouldn't see me and they used to get me up at 9o'clock at night to empty this stinking bucket.

They were always worried about the neighbours watching. When you lived in a yard everybody knew what everybody else was doing. And they all knew what was happening in our house, and they used to bang on the door and say "Leave that child alone Mr Woodhead" But it didn't make any difference to him, he just used to carry on with the beatings. He used to bend me across his knees with my head between his legs and beat my bare bottom with the buckle end of his belt. She used to stand and watch and I think they both got some kind of satisfaction out of it. Once when he was very angry with me he hung me on a hook by the back of my sweater and she actually stopped him, I think she thought I might die and he would get the blame.I don't know when it all started but she was very cruel, she didn't care about me one bit, in fact I think she would have liked to see me die.

Things went from worse to terribly worse.  It is beyond one's imagination that she should stoop so low as to do such things to a young child. I think she gave me other things apart from the senna tea. Sometimes I would wake up in a daze and I couldn't stand up. I used to have a bed with a feather mattress and one morning when I woke up all my clothes were stuffed with feathers and there were feathers every where. Now I don't remember doing it and I thought I was in another world, and I couldn't believe what had happened to me. Any way they took the bed away after that, so she couldn't do that again. It meant I had to sleep on the floor on a pile of old rags  and I wasn't allowed to bring my clothes upstairs.

They used to keep me shut up in the attic, sometimes all the weekends and holiday periods.  When I came home from school I had to take off all my clothes nd leave everything downstairs, then I was sent up to the attic, what I went upstairs in wasn't very much probably just my shirt, and that was it until the next morning.  It wasn't very nice up there.  I t was a room about 9`x 9` with one window and my Father used to breed canaries up there so I shared a room with them.  I used to walk around and look at them and if I got the chance I would eat their food, which was some mixture with scrambled egg in it.  It was much better than the same old bread and margarine that I got.  Of course I disturbed them, so to stop me he put up a partition of plywood 6" down from the ceiling and 6" up from the floor.  It had a door in it which he kept looked.  I was left with a space about 3`x 9` and the canaries had the rest including the window. The only light I had was above and below the partition. I couldn't see to read, if ever I managed to sneak a book upstairs I would push it under the partition to get some light. If I got caught at it I was given a belting because it disturbed the birds again. But since I never had much to read  I didn't do this often.

Some times if someone gave me a book I would plead with them to let me keep it, but I had to leave it downstairs and she would rip pages out of it, so it was very difficult.  I couldn't take a library book home because she would destroy it and when the library asked me to pay for it I couldn't, so I was barred from the library. There were lots of other things I was barred from because I couldn't cope with these things.  In those days the poor children in the community were given a pair of boots. I was given them for about  three years.  I had to leave them downstairs and what she used to do was first all was to start on the seams she would cut one of them every night and then she would start prising off the soles.  Oh, it was disgusting. My Father thought I was doing it, I hadn't done it but he wouldn't believe me and I got another belting until I said alright I had done it and then the belting would stop. But I hadn't done it. I hadn't got a knife, or anything to do it with. The trouble was, he was never there when I took my clothes off or when I put them on again so he never was there to examine them.  And she used to play on this.  Evntually I got no more free boots.

Everything I brought home she used to ruin. She would cut the pages out of books and break things. At one time I was given free glasses because I couldn't see the black board . They had to be left downstairs of course and next morning they would be all smeared with grease and I couldn't see through the darned things.  So all I could do was put them on until I got outside and then rub them clean on my clothes. But that didn't last long, the next thing she did was to crack one of the lenses, that wasn't too bad because I could still see through it, but then she would crack the other lens and then they were useless. I of course got the blame and a belting. The first time it happened  the glasses were replaced but the next time they refused to give me any more glasses. Once all the chilren at school were given a party and we all received a present. Mine was a train set and of course when I got home I had to leave it downstairs. Our teacher had asked us to bring our presents to school the next day but when I picked the trainset up the next morning it rattled, which it hadn't done before. I opened it on my way to school and found it was all in pieces. I couldn't take it to school like that so I threw it away and then I had to pretend I had lost it.

School was a bit of a problem. It was only about 250 yards away. A big old school, quite nice really. But I created the problem because when I was sent to school I would take off because that was the only time I could get out to play. Just to be free. I would go off for the day and roll home at nightime to a beating and at school I waould be caned, so I got punished twice for the same thing. But it didn't stop me. Then they had this thing of keeping me in for lunch. I think I had a bottle of cold tea and the usual two slices of bread and margarine. The teacher used to stay in with me and one day she asked to see what I had for lunch. I was ashamed to show her but she looked at it and said nothing. But she started to bring me sandwiches and I was eating these sandwiches and enjoying them so I didn't want the bread and margarine so I threw it out of the window for the birds. Unfortunately the window was over the caretakers garden and one day he spotted me doing it, he saw it coming through the window. He must have told the teacher and she asked me why I hadn't put it in the wastepaper basket. I told her I hadn't wanted her to see it in case she stopped bringing me sandwiches. But she had to stop anyway.

Anyway they got tired of keeping me locked up and the idea was that I would go home for my bread and marg. But about that time a free school meals service was started for poor families of more than four children and I found that my cousins, who came to the same school were having this. So I told my father because by this time Ma Bailey had produced four more children, and he got it for me and it really helped. There was a breakfast of bread and jam, and one day a week bread and butter and no jam and a mug of cocoa. A decent lunch and a sweet and tea was the same as breakfast. It was very good because it was from Monday to Friday and even on Saturday you got lunch. But I still was sent up to bed as soon as I got home. So I used to abscond, and in the end they used to send somebody to meet me. But I used to see if there was someone at the gate and then do a dive through the toilets and over the wall and escape. I would arrive home much later to another beating but I had enjoyed myself. In the end they got tired of it and I was allowed to wander round a bit, although I had to be in by a certain time. Obviously it was difficult for me to get back at the right time because I had no watch and if there were any clocks around I couldn't see them because I was short sighted.

The time passes so quickly when you are playing and before you know where you are you are in trouble. I got quite used to being thrashed. I wasn't immune to it but I suppose I just accepted it as something that happened, and if I could have a few hours freedom it was worth it. But Saturday and Sunday were a bugbear because I wasn't allowed out. The excuse was that I had no clothes to wear. I only had the clothes I stood up in and I suppose they were washed sometimes but not very often. They were never patched or mended, so I was always ragged arsed.  Shoes were worn until they fell off your feet. I used to find bits of cardboard to stuff inside them to make them more comfortable, but that didn't last long especially when it rained. Socks ended at the ankle so they were hardly worth wearing.  It's suprising what you get used to. But the school meals were a godsend and once I started to get some decent food I could put up with almost anything. I think I must have been about nine when they started. Also about this time school milk was started. At first it cost 1/2d a bottle and my father wouldn't, or couldn't, pay that so I didn't get it. But eventually it was free and everybody got it. I must have been about 10 or 11 then.

When I was about  11 I went to a different school - a senior school about 3/4 of a mile away. There were no buses, but I wouldn't have been given the money anyway. Most of us walked together and enjoyed it.  I didn't have a coat of overcoat or oilskins.In the rain I just got wet. Winter time made no difference I just carried on. I suppose I got used to it.  Every time the school nurse came to school there would be a letter sent home saying " This child is lousy, he has got scabs all over his body, he is illclothed and underfed."  But it didn't make one scrap of difference.  They couldn't enforce anything.  But I had to go to a clinic three times a week to get these scabs sort of patched up.  I had them all down my legs and all over my head and body.  Eventually I was sent to an open air school which was outside Sheffield. A bus would pick us up outside the clinic which was in Orchard street in the middle of Sheffield. The girls were lucky and were able to board at the school but unfortunately, being a boy I had to go home every night. There were no buses at night so we had to walk down to the nearest tram stop, which was 1/2 mile away and the tram took us into Sheffield.

When you got to the school you were given a big oilskin a pair of wellingtons and a souwester. I went home with all this and the usual happened. She slashed the oilskin and tried to slash the wellingtons as well. When I went back to the school I had to see the headmistress about the damage. She asked me how it happened.  I quite truthfully said "I don't know." but she said I must know, and after a while I told her how I went home at night and was sent straight upstairs after taking all my clothes off and  leaving them on a stand near the door. The next morning when I came down they were all torn. I said I didn't know who had done it but I had a very good idea. She asked me who I thought had done it, and I said "my stepmother." She wrote a letter home and my Father came to the school. He told her it wasn't my stepmother who had done the damage, I had done it myself. He told her I was a liar and a vagabond and that I was always doing things like that and all other kinds of bad things. She may have half believed him but I think she may have had a little bit of sympathy for me because she came in one day and told me to take off my shoes and she looked at my feet and socks. The next morning she sent for me and she had a pair of woollen socks and a pair of sandals. She made me wash my feet and put on the new socks and sandals, and it felt lovely.  Later she asked if my Father had noticed them, I said "Yes Miss".  "Well he didn't send a letter of thanks" she said. I didn't say anything,but I thought, you won't get any thanks from him. After that they gave me a very old mackintosh and wellingtons and for a while nothing happened, although she did tear the buttons off the mac. Anything to get me into trouble.

I only stayed at that place for 12 months and I think one of the reasons I had to leave was because of the damage that had been done. Anyway I had 12 months of it and I certainly enjoyed the food, it was terrific. But  the schooling I got was practically nil. By the time you got to the school and had breakfast it was gone 10 o'clock and you packed up for lunch at 12 o'clock. Then there were medical examinations and visits to the dentist. Hot and cold showers 3 times a week. They would have it hot and have you dancing around and then turn it to freezing cold and have you dancing around some more. It was mean't to stimulate you, it certainly stimulated me, it got rid of all my fleas. I think my clothes were taken away and I was given clean ones. Then we had an hour sleeping outside wrapped in blankets. It was always cold there because the classrooms were open on one side.  There was a fire in there but it was up in a corner in the front and I used to sit at the back. I had no coat but they used to allow us to wear our macs if it was very cold. It was lovely in the summer, but in winter there sometimes used to be 3 or 4 feet of snow. We would run around in it until we were wet through.

Back at home the food hadn't improved, it was still the same old 2 slices of bread and marg three times a day. I got fed up with it one day and asked if I could have bread and lard instead and that went on for evermore so eventually I asked to go back on the marg. The only hot meal she gave me was on a Sunday, and that was and a bit of mashed potato and swede,some gravy, and a bit of yorkshire pudding. It was a very small portion and you never saw any meat. A rat wouldn't have got fat on it. There was also a cup of cold tea. When I got older she stopped puting things in it,and I had learned to taste it before I drank it and if it tasted funny I would tip it into my bucket.  The food never improved much. Even when I left school and was working. There was sometimes a bit of mouldy cheese with my 'snap' and when I brought my wages home on a Saturday I was given a few stale chips which had been waiting in the oven. She would also give me a bun and made me feel she was bestowing a great favour. She didn't know I had spent all my pocket money on buns and had stuffed myself with them before I came home. I used to spend most of my money on food, apart from a bath at the local baths once a week and a cinema ticket. One night of revelry and it was gone. I only had my mucky working clothes to go out in. No wonder all the girls used to steer clear of me!

Return to ~sid:Joan:Mum's story~
