Arthur A: 1892-1967 (74 years). Born: Thanet

Olive Gertrude Hart: 1898-1978 (80 years). Born: London

Married: January 31, 1920

Daughters: Margaret, Jessie and ~sid:Joan:Joan~

~img:Wedding.jpg:right 50%~The earliest photo showing Olive and Arthur is that of their wedding on January 31, 1920. On the knee of the lady next to Arthur is Margaret, his daughter by his first marriage. Here Margaret is about 2 years old. Public records show that an Arthur A Matthews married a Margaret L Harding in Edmonton around September 1916 and that a Margaret L Matthews died in North London around December 1917.

~img:Bus.jpg:left 25%~During the First World War Arthur had been an instrument maker, a reserved occupation. After the war he got together with two fellow entrepreneurs and together bought a bus, operating as a 'pirate' bus company that caused much annoyance to the more respectable operators. The idea of building a national integrated network came later (and has to a large extent passed again). One of the larger companies eventually bought out this particular band of pirates, leaving Arthur enough money lay down the deposit on his first house.

~img:19 Albert Ave Chingford.jpg:right 25%~From 1927 the Matthews family, with its 3 daughters and a variety of dogs, lived in their new house at 19 Albert Avenue, Chingford, on the northern outskirts of London as it becomes Essex.

~img:Olive and Arthur.jpg:left 25%~Other than the wedding photo, few remain. Here's one of Olive and Arthur, taken much later in life; I'm guessing the early 1960s. I believe this is pretty much how their grandchildren remember them.

I have no information about Arthur's parents and no photos seem to have survived, if any were taken of them. Arthur was twice married; with his first wife he had a daughter, Margaret, then with Olive two more, Jessie and Joan. It would seem from the public records that his first marriage was short-lived as his first wife, Margaret, died either while or soon after giving birth to the daughter named after her in 1917, near the end of the First World War.

~img:Hart Family.jpg:right 25%~On Olive's side, however, cameras were not unknown and a couple of photos of her own parents, a Mr and Mrs Hart (first names unknown) have survived to this day; in particular a family group taken in about 1926 with Olive and her 2 youngest daughters Joan (L) and Jessie (R). ~img:Grandad Hart.jpg:left 25%~There's also a picture of Mr Hart and another of Olive with her mother, ~img:Olive and her mum.jpg:left 25%~the dates of which are unknown but probably the early 1920s. It seems that dogs were a constant part of their family environment, as can be seen in the latter photo.

~clear~

~img:5 The Vale, Broadstairs.jpg:right 25%~At some point after the war the Matthews retired to Broadstairs, in Kent, on the very south-eastern tip of England, where they bought "Southview", at  5 The Vale, a substantial terraced property on 4 floors, which they ran for many years as a guest house. All of their 7 grandchildren have memories from the 1950s of summer holidays spent together or separately at Southview, with daily trips to the beach, Gran's famous cooking and Grandad's slate-bedded snooker table (albeit a quarter-size one). In these memories the sun never stopped shining though I'm sure the reality couldn't have been so idyllic.

Daughters: Margaret, Jessie and ~sid:Joan:Joan~
