## World War II ##

As Ron approached the end of his teens, Hitler's Germany was making increasingly threatening noises towards its neighbours. War was inevitable and by 1940 the Battle of Britain was under way. Ron was conscripted into the First Army, where he would remain for the next 6 years.

It is a matter of some regret that we know as little as we do about this time. I suppose we all assume our parents to be immortal and that there will be time later. All that remains here are a few basic facts, with a couple of anecdotes in passing.

~img:1.jpg:imageborder left pc25~Ron's Army training took place at Catterick Camp, in North Yorkshire, then for much of the war he served in North Africa and took part in the Allied invasion of Italy. We are not sure if he made it as far as Germany before the war ended. He was in Signals, mostly driving a radio truck and operating the equipment inside. This must have been least sometimes a front-line role as he once mentioned being trapped behind enemy lines for some hours as the battle raged to and fro. 

Ron was not a model soldier. He was a small, slim man, modest and polite with a good education, more at home with a book than in the bar with mates. The Army demands unquestioning obedience and a black-and-white view of the world, and having spent all of his upbringings under the jackboot of a religious army Ron would have been less than keen on more of the same. However, he was fortunately not a rebel (these and other misfits got a very hard time in the wartime forces) so he followed orders, kept his pacifist views to himself and made the best of it. He eventually rose to the rank of Sergeant, which was pretty much as good as could be expected given his working-class background and lack of a University education.

Ron believed in the carrot rather than the stick, an approach that was rather at odds with Army training. On more than one occasion he was reprimanded for not shouting enough at his men (It's hard to recall him ever shouting, or even getting properly angry for that matter). His response was "They do what I ask so I don't need to shout", but the Army had little time for such displays of intelligence as it greatly preferred shouting.
