Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|S-Kate and Sidney:Parents: Kate and Sidney|S-Joan:Wife: Joan|S-Graham:Son: Graham|T-Wartime:A soldier in World War II~~space:3~Next: ~sid:Joan and Ron~

Ronald George Trott: 1918-1986

Ronald - my Dad - was born on April 30 1918, in the final year of the Great War, in the industrialised dockland area of East London. His father, Sidney, was not in the Armed Forces as his was a reserved occupation in the docks.

~img:Ron.jpg:right 25%~Judging by the little he talked about it, Ron's childhood was neither typical nor very enjoyable. His mother, Kate, had been ensnared by an extreme Protestant sect and believed that all pleasure was sinful. There was no wireless set in the house, no books except the Bible and no family activities outside of the church. Ron and his older brother Victor had little time of their own as church attendance was compulsory every weekday and 3 times on Sundays. Socialising with friends was not permitted. 

In spite of this, Ron did well at school, qualifying for Grammar school, and would have made it to university but for family poverty. At the time he left school the world was still in Depression and opportunities were few.

As Ron approached the end of his teens, Hitler's Germany was making increasingly threatening noises towards its neighbours. War was inevitable and by 1940 the Battle of Britain was under way. Ron was conscripted into the First Army, where he would remain for the next 6 years. See ~tid:Wartime:A soldier in World War II~. It was during this time he met Joan. For reasons I never investigated, Ron was in Bournemouth during the early part of the war and would take the same bus every day. He was a good-looking young soldier and caught the eyes of a group of girls who used the same bus. One in particular was rather attracted to him and was encouraged by her friends to go over and speak to him. I think he would have been far too shy to have made the move himself, finding - as many young men do - groups of girls to be far too intimidating. And this is how my parents met. They continued a relationship by post for the remainder of the war and married on October 7 1945, a month after the war ended.

Afte he was demobilised Ron returned to work as an engineer's clerk at Buck and Hickman, a supplier of tools with a large shop on Tottenham Court Road, and moved with Joan into a flat in North London. From here on their stories become one.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|SKate and Sidney:Parents: Kate and Sidney|SJoan:Wife: Joan|SGraham:Son: Graham|TWartime:A soldier in World War II~~space:3~Next: ~sid:Joan and Ron~
