Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|S-Joan:Joan|S-Ron:Ron|T-Joan and Ron:Joan and Ron~~space:3~Next: 
 
## Family Holidays

Throughout the early years holidays were always taken in Broadstairs, where Mum's parents ran the "Southview" guest house. As Malcolm and I entered our teens Dad gained a couple of levels of promotion and by about 1961 we started to take foreign holidays. We'd had a couple of camping trips in Britain but they usually turned out to coincide with terrible weather, our tents were primitive and I recall we spent more time drying out than enjoying the holiday. ~img:Club Camping.jpg:left 25%~It was during this period that Mum and Dad became interested in nudism, or what its practitioners call "naturism" and they had joined a Sun Club near Swanley in North Kent, After some initial adjustment this provided a fairly ideal environment for a couple of pre-teens and we'd go there most weekends. Again, camping, but with better equipment that could withstand the occasional shower without flooding. The place was well equipped with games courts and a swimming pool, though it has to be said that dedicated naturists can be a strange bunch. Many are out-and-out narcissists, which possibly explains why they go for it in the first place. It was set up mainly for families, though, so we were never short of friends.

~img:Companion.jpg:right 25%~The foreign holidays were also centered around naturism. Several of these were to a big campsite on the south-west coast of France and one was to Cap d'Agde on the Mediterranean coast. These were highly adventurous trips to attempt in a 1962 Standard Companion crammed to the roof with people, bags and camping gear. My father was a world-class expert in the art of overloading cars; the poor thing struggled all the way across France with its suspension bottomed. I think I may have inherited some of his talent.

The most adventurous trip of all, starting in late July 1966, involved a two-week drive down to Switzerland, then Austria, cicling back across the top of Italy and back into France across one of the Alpine passes. This we did in our nearly-new Bedford Dormobile. ~img:Eiffel.jpg:left 25%~Our first stop was in Paris, where we had the inevitable photo-shoot at the top of the Eiffel Tower, in those days without its safety screening. This was added, probably in the late 1970s or early 1980s as a result of people jumping from the viewing platform.

I'm a bit hazy about where we went next but we certainly passed through Germany, where we stayed in a youth hostel for a couple of nights. The local hit parade was at that time topped by an eloquent trumpet piece that stayed lodged in my memory for the next 43 years or so before I eventually discovered what it was. But that's another story - see ~stid:Graham/Music:The Trumpet Hit~.

~img:Glacier.jpg:right 25%~The next point I remember was Austria, parking up to descend via cable car onto the huge GrossGlockner Glacier, roughly in the middle of a triangle between Innsbruck, Salzburg and Villach. Health and Safety not being a thing at that time we walked about on the ice, Mum all the while terrified we'd fall into one of the crevasses. I revisited the same place in 2001, 35 years later, only to find the glacier has now retreated leaving just rocks and the cable car is dismantled. That's climate change.

~img:Dormobile.jpg:left 25%~For some reason, most of my memories of that trip are from the part in Italy. It was the year of the World Cup and on the motorway somewhere near Turin, driving along in almost unbearable heat with the sliding doors wide open, we were mystified by occasional drivers coming towards us and extending a hand with first four fingers then two outstretched. In those days there was no way we could have known that England had just won the World Cup. Another curiosity was the motorway signs, a large proportion of which were disfigured by what looked like bullet holes. It seems the locals must have used them as moving target practice. I'm quite happy to believe this; after all, "The Italian Job" came barely 3 years later and the mountain scenes were quite likely filmed on the road we took en route from Italy to France. I do remember a lot of tunnels and a lot of bends.

In Turin itself we tried to change some travellers cheques but ran into some difficulty. Although Dad evidently knew a few words of Italian after his time in the Army recapturing the country, it was in no way up to the task of explaining to the currency exchange guy, who although quite happy to help us couldn't figure why his newspaper (printing the current exchange rate) quoted the British currency as being something called 'Sterlino' but the cheques themselves were printed "Pounds". They obviously didn't get many crazy British tourists in Turin. I don't remember the eventual outcome but we evidently survived intact. 

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|S-Joan:Joan|S-Ron:Ron|T-Joan and Ron:Joan and Ron~~space:3~Next: 
