Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|S-Joan:Joan|S-Ron:Ron|T-Joan and Ron:Joan and Ron~~space:3~Next: 
 
## Later in life

When Dad retired in 1978 my parents decided to move somewhere closer to at least one of their sons. We weren't making it easy for them, never putting down roots anywhere for more than a few years, but I had a steady job in Suffolk, in a nice area, so that was where they decided to go.

I don't know whose idea it was to build a house; it's a pretty adventurous thing for an ex-civil servant to take on, but that's what they did. They found an acre of land outside the village of Hadleigh, in Suffolk not far from Ipswich, and commissioned a wood-frame bungalow to be built largely to their own specifications. They lived on-site in a caravan during the construction period and spent most of each day taming a wilderness. The plot was at the corner of a farmer's field, unused for decades because it was the only part of the field that wasn't flat. In fact it was so far off flat, tractors had trouble getting up and down it, so over the years it had become a small wood. Mum and Dad decided to keep half of it as a wood and put the bungalow in the middle of the rest, surrounding it with gardens, vegetable plots and a small orchard.

"Nettles", the highly appropriate name for this property, was a delightful place to be and they were very happy there for a number of years. Unfortunately, Dad had been developing Parkinson's Disease. I'd noticed the unsteadiness in his hands when I was quite young and thought nothing of it, but it was evidently the disease waiting to take over later in life. There eventually came a time, around 1984, when managing the house and garden became too much for them. At the time, I was living over in Felixstowe, about 20 miles away, and the bungalow next door but one was up for sale so it seemed too good an opportunity to miss.

Although Dad was getting very withdrawn as a result of the Parkinson's and was shaky on his feet, Mum wasted no time in transforming the garden and rearranging the house to create a new kitchen, but their time in Felixstowe together was not to be for very long. My wife at the time, Frances, was a member of the local amateur dramatic society, which put on an annual show at the Spa Pavilion, at the foot of the cliffs behind Felixstowe's sea front. Naturally my parents would go to see the show each year, if only to demonstrate solidarity, and I would arrive separately. In August 1986 they were making their way down the steps leading from the road above, where they had left their car, when Dad stumbled and fell. There was no handrail and nobody to stop him landing hard with a heavy blow to the head, rendering him unconscious. He was rushed to hospital in Ipswich but found to be in a coma from which he never recovered. A week or so later, life support was withdrawn.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|S-Joan:Joan|S-Ron:Ron|T-Joan and Ron:Joan and Ron~~space:3~Next: 
