Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Career1:Working through University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Career3:Leaving British Telecom|T-Career4:CD-Interactive||T-Technology:The Geek's ProgressT-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next:

## Audix Broadcast Limited

Way back in about 1983 I was getting quite well known within my department at BT Research as someone who was part of a hobbyist group that knew about microprocessors; how to build systems and how to write the software than ran on them. My boss at the time had a friendly relationship with Audix Broadcast, a supplier of audio studio equipment, from whom we purchased items from time to time. At that time, Heathrow Airport was building its new Terminal 4 and required an announcement system - what we referred to as the "bing bong" machine. This was a complex and technically challenging project involving passing audio and control signals all around the terminal. Audix entered a bid; I discovered only years later that they regularly bid for projects that were really way beyond their capabilities and then struggled to deliver on their promises.

The project was obviously going to need a computer and some software, both areas in which Audix were weak. My boss, being a friend of the company on the one hand and knowing of a bunch of enthusiastic computer builders on the other, was ideally placed to put the two together, so we proposed a system. To our surprise our bid was accepted. (Of course, BT knew nothing of this and would have objected strongly had they ever got wind of it, that being the nature of the corporate mindset.)

For the next couple of years all my spare time was taken up with writing software to control this rather ambitious system. Others of our team of about 6 wrote the admin parts of the software. We commissioned special hardware designs from ~tid:Career3:Windrush Micro Systems~, with whom I already had a close relationship, to handle the special requirements of the system, which stretched the capabilities of the technology of the time.

The system was eventually delivered, but I gather it was never a total success and was stripped out and replaced a few years later. It suffered from reliability issues owing largely to the design, that mixed digitized audio and control data onto a single coaxial cable. In the lab this worked fine, but with cable runs of hundreds of meters in some cases, errors could be induced by proximity to high-current electrical systems, and the error recovery strategy was less than perfect. Eventualy the team broke up, we returned to our full-time careers and got our spare time back again.

Then about 10 years later, in the mid-1990s, a call arrived out of the blue from Audix again. By now they were building components for radio stations; audio mixers, matrix switches and other related gear, and needed help to control them from embedded microprocessors. Another job that suited me fine; also another ambitious bite that would prove hard for the company to swallow. By then I was working for Backs Electronic Publishing on miscellaneous projects following the demise of ~tid:Career4:CD-Interactive~ but I figured I had time to combine the two. The way I dealt with it was basically to kill two birds with one stone by writing the same software for both, or as near as could be achieved. And so I came to write the first of a series of high-level scripting languages that I still work on to this day.

When in 1999 I had to leave BEPL I carried on working for Audix. The biggest - and final - project was another ambition system, this time to be installed in the national radio station in Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan Province on the Yellow River in China. As with Heathrow Terminal 4, a complete system was never set up here in the UK; all I ever got sight of was bits of it. With more experience I would have seen disaster coming, as inevitably it did. In 2003 we flew to Hong Kong, caught the hydrofoil to Shenzhen and picked up an onward flight to Zhengzhou. The visit was supposed to have been for just 2 weeks, but things started to go wrong almost immediately and I ended up there for six weeks, working 12-hour days, seven days a week. Apart from faults in my own software I had to deal with a host of problems that had not been foreseen by the owner of Audix, who was described as "a gambler" by the Hong Kong contractor overseeing the project at one memorable meeting, when he tried to lay all the blame on his software engieer (me).

We returned to the UK to sort things out and Audix decided to continue without me. I have no idea how it all turned out. I only ever got paid for the 2 initial weeks (though all my expenses were covered) and I never even got to see much of China. In the six weeks we had just one day off, to a local theme park; the only place where I ever saw another non-Chinese (I think they were Russians). Looking back on it now, it was all a rather odd, almost surreal experience, being in a part of China where Europeans were rare (and something to be stared at). I have a set of rather disconnected memories, such as that of going out for dinner in a group. None of the restaurants thought it necessary to provide all their guests with food at the same time, so one of us would be finished long before the next had even started. I took a lot of photos while there, but I'm sad to say they have all gone missing.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Career1:Working through University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Career3:Leaving British Telecom|T-Career4:CD-Interactive||T-Technology:The Geek's ProgressT-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next:
