Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-University:University|T-Career1:Working through University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Career3:Windrush Micro Systems|T-Career5:Audix Broadcast|T-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career5:Audix Broadcast~

## Backs Electronic Publishing

The economy went into a shallow recession in 1990, less than a year after I left the safety of BT to join a small computer company in Norfolk. The move suddenly seemed a rather less than wise decision. We'd moved to a 5-bedroom new-build on the edge of North Walsham, in the heart of rural East Anglia; not the most likely place to find a job in computing. However, Serendipity delivered the most unlikely of solutions, in the form of Backs Electronic Publishing (BEPL).

When the CD appeared in the early '80s, its two main driving forces were Sony and Philips. Their ambitions didn't stop at audio; they had their eyes on a greater prize. We take high-definition video so much for granted now, it's hard to remember that at that time it was quite hard to display digitised video of any kind on computers as they had such limited power and the storage requirements for video were so huge. At the end of the 1980s, however, the Motion Picture Experts Group had finalised and approved the MPEG-1 standard for encoding video and audio into a manageable file size. The problem was that computers weren't powerful enough to decode it without extra assistance. Motorola were commissioned to design a chip that could do this job and the companies laid plans for the successor to the CD, which they called CD Interactive. This was to be a new generation of players, with discs that carried video and program code along with audio.

The project proved to be challenging and many obstacles were encountered, not the least being the sheer difficulty of programming the kind of content that would lure customer into buying the new players. Software tools were hurriedly written to make it a little easier but it was still a daunting task to create titles. Part of this was because of the desire for this to be more than just a player and combine media with computer code to run truly interactive titles such as video games. This was made even more difficult by the limited capacity of a CD, requiring immense ingenuity to get a title to fit on a disc.

The players did start to appear in around 1988 but ran into a fatal problem; the Motorola MPEG decoder chips. These were highly complex processing engines and it proved all but impossible to make them run cool enough for practical use. Players would overheat on a regular basis, and by the time the problem had finally been solved the entire CD-i concept had been discredited. This was helped further along by some smart marketing announcement by Panasonic of a rival system, to be called Digitial Video Disc (DVD), even though no such system actually appeared until 1997. But enough people were persuaded that it would be better to wait, and the "Interactive" concept was abandoned. In just a few more years home computers were doing interactivity far better than CD-i and the whole system became a footnote in history.

But I'm getting ahead of myself. As the recession of 1990 bit, my job at Windrush was soon to go, so I started looking around. By a stroke of fortune, just 20 miles away across Norfolk was Robin Back, who after a career in banking had decided to go into technology instead and had settled on making titles for the Philips CD-i system just about to be released after a long wait for players. The first of these left out the MPEG chip so they couldn't play true video and had to make do with still images and animations of various kinds, but that suited Robin as his first title was to be a French Cooking disc. All he needed was a programmer with experience related to the technologies used, and there I was just across the county and looking for work.

To make it all even more attractive Robin decided the programmer should be a home worker. This was to an extent forced upon him as he lived in just about the remotest part of Norfolk imaginable; a slow drive along miles of twisting country lanes. The biggest problem would be how we'd communicate. We started of by having meetings once a week or so, one of us driving across the county to the other, where I'd show the latest code and pick up graphics to incorporate in the product. Broadband at that time was many years in the future so we looked at various ways we could improve on the dire speed of dial-up modems. We hit upon the idea of using a point-to-point radio link to connect us, but although Norfolk is not a hilly county it is just sufficiently bumpy for us to have needed substantial radio towers at each end; definitely an eysore. Finally we got BT to provide us with a "private wire"; a fixed connection running 2-channel ISDN that gave us 128kbit/sec. Very slow by today's standards but the best there was at the time. We connected our computers and were at last able to exchange files. We completed the cooking disc and created a couple more working with the famous chefs Albert and Michel Roux; also a series of discs for Waitrose to use to train their till operators. All this took us to about 1993, by which time it was getting clear that CD-i's days were numbered.

While we'd been working with CD-i, computers had come on. Windows 3 was the new market leader so we started to transfer some of our titles over. Quite early on during the production of our first CD-i disc I had found the official programming tools almost impossible to work with and had devised a solution myself that gave us the ability to deliver at a much faster rate. This was to build a programming language that we could use to describe the actions of the title and then run them, without the need to get bogged down in the complexities of the underlying technology. So when we moved to Windows it was just a matter of porting the tools; the titles needed far less work to fit them to the new platform.

Then in 1995 Microsoft released Windows 95, whose underlying architecture rendered all my programming tools obsolete overnight. It was starting to get hard to keep up and the niche in which we operated was shrinking fast. We struggled on for a few more years, during which time I discovered Java, the new programming language from Sun Microsystems, which promised to allow programmers to ignore the hardware and just focus on the code. I embarked on another software conversion to get some semblance of my programming tools into Java and we used the result for a fairly major project for the forensic computing team at PriceWaterhouse Coopers.

But it was the Inland Revenue that dealt the final blow. At the end of the 1990s it was evident that many so-called "self-employed" people were in fact nothing of the kind; they were simply dodging taxation of one form or another. So the Revenue came up with IR35; a set of rules that determined who was a contractor and who an employee, and it became evident that I should have been the latter but had in fact been classed as the former for my whole time with BEPL. Given the increasing difficulty in getting enough customers to pay for our work, Robin couldn't afford to keep me on as an employee, so it was evident I would have to move on.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-University:University|T-Career1:Working through University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Career3:Windrush Micro Systems|T-Career5:Audix Broadcast|T-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career5:Audix Broadcast~
