Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Grammar school:Grammar school|T-University:University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Technology:The Geek's Progress|T-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career2:Post Office Telecommunications~

## Working through University

In the late 1960s the idea of mixing study with work became quite popular. University courses were extended from the traditional 3 years to 4 or 5 years and the extra time was spent with the employer who sponsored the course. At its peak of popularity in the late 1980s about 20% of all students were on some kind of sandwich course, though the proportion dropped in later years.

There were 2 kinds of sandwich course, wittily called "thick" and "thin". The former added a working year; the latter - such as mine - interleaved work and study, alternating every 6 months for 4 years with a final full year of study.

The "work" part of my course meant being a trainee in the local electricity supply business, climbing poles, digging holes, changing the oil in transformers and switches at substations and fitting domestic meters. I had no head for heights and when asked to climb a pole used to shake with fear, so much that the entire line could be seen vibrating. Climbing the poles was not for wimps. No steps were provided; they were for those softies with their telephone poles. Electricity guys were real men; we had climbing irons round our legs with a spike on each foot that dug into the pole and a canvas strap that went round the pole and your body, that you flipped up to take the next step. You hung out from the pole at arms length; if you hugged it - as you do when terrified - the spikes came out and down you went. Fortunately I only fell off once and was spared serious injury by landing in a nice soft hawthorn hedge.

I also had a month or two at the Croydon B coal-fired power station, where I gained an appreciation of the scale of these things. Each boiler was a steel box the size of a cathedral, filled with water pipes. The fans that blew in the air and coal dust were supported on ballraces comprising 10 or so ball bearings each the size of a golf ball, and the whole thing was inside a vast building. To gain access to the upper parts of a boiler meant using a lift to get to the right level then walking out on steel mesh gantries high in the air, which did a power of no good to my fear of heights. I clutched the edge of the lift doorway and I don't remember if I actually managed to walk out.

I really wasn't made for all this hands-on, masculine stuff. During my time a university I'd been drawn more to electronics than "proper" electrical engineering, with its heavy cables, transformers, holes in the ground and high places to fall off. I'd had interviews with both the BBC and with Post Office Telephones and as my time at university neared its end the latter offered me a job at a slightly higher salary than that from the Electricity Board who had funded my higher education. I accepted, then tooled off to Brighton to break the news. Needless to say they were not best pleased. I think if corporal punishment had still been legal in 1971 I might have got 20 lashes (just kidding); as it was I received an angry lecture on duty, responsibility and my lack of wisdom in turning down a job that (they promised) could net me as much as ₤2000 a year by the time I was 30 in 7 years' time. (By that time that date arrived inflation had seen my pay rise to about £6000.)

So after sucking from the Electricity Board teat for 5 years I left rather abruptly clutching my degree certificate and joined Post Office Telecommunications, as it was called then.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Grammar school:Grammar school|T-University:University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Technology:The Geek's Progress|T-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-University:University~
