Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Grammar school:Grammar school|T-University:University|T-Career1:Working through University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Career4:CD-Interactive|T-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career4:CD-Interactive~

## Windrush Micro Systems

When the first microprocessor chips became available in 1975 I started collecting components and hand-built my first computer. This was to be the start of my life's passion for computer software; initially a hobby but one that became a career. It was only when I was well past retirement age that it returned to being a hobby.

Of course not having any training in the subject I was never likely to achieve greatness in this chosen field, but that didn't stop me achieving moderate success in more minor ways. This whole subject will have its own set of pages, for the benefit those few who may be interested in the technical details.

Over a period of about 15 years the hobby went hand-in-hand with - and even enhanced - my work at British Telecom. I hand-built small computer systems, wrote all the software and used them to help with the work we were paid to do. My role within the company was that of a middle manager but I confess I didn't do a lot of management, preferring instead to spend as much time as possible with the computers instead of with my staff. It seems that not having a hands-on approach to management wasn't actually harmful; my staff appreciated being able to follow their own paths and we achieved results, but it wasn't the way things were supposed to be done. In a way I was following my father's example, when during the war he was regularly criticised for not shouting at his men. His logical defence - that I used a generation later - was that there was no need as they did was was asked of them, but in each of our cases this was regarded as unsatisfactory.

At one point I was offered a new member of staff; a young lad who was regarded as rather troublesome as he was unable to take instructions. I interviewed him and saw imagination and a willingness to commit so I took him on. Soon after I remember the surprise and pleasure he showed when I - the team leader ten years his senior - asked for his advice on how to proceed rather than just handing down orders. He eventually developed into a valued team member able to make sensible decisions. I've always been rather proud of that achievement.

As well as building our own computer kit we started buying systems from a small manufacturer in Norfolk. This was before the days of the IBM PC and we found it useful to have such direct contact rather than having to deal with a sales organisation. After a while, the software I was writing was adopted by the company for their own uses. Here I was treading on thin ice as British Telecom was very posessive about anything created by its employees, even if - as in my case - virtually all the work had been done at home, not in their time. My attitude was that if they wanted to own the stuff they should at least compensate my for the time I took writing it, but such arguments carry little weight.

So gradually my interests diverged from those of my employer. My friendship with the Norfolk company, Windrush Microsystems, developed ever closer. Something had to give and in around 1985 it did, slowly at first but with only one possible final destination. Windrush had gone from being basically a one-man band to two friends working together, the second one being a New Yorker who had recently left the offshore oil business. He brought a much-needed dynamism to the company and for the first time I started getting paid for the use of my software. Over the next couple of years, with his encouragement I wrote some greatly improved software that achieved moderate success around the world. I've written elsewhere some more technical details about ~tid:Computer2:the various products I built with Windrush~.

Windrush used to exhibit at a computer exhibition in Earls Court every year and I'd take a day's leave to go down and help man the stand. This worked until 1989, when BT also had a stand at the show. Someone noticed me and I was shopped. It simply wasn't acceptable for a member of BT staff - even if unidentified - to be seen selling rival products. It would have been fine for me to be a part-time publican but not this. So rather than give up  what I most enjoyed doing I resigned from BT, thereby causing my pension rights to be frozen at the values for that date, something that would come back to bite me 20 years later.

After I working my notice I left and went to work as a director at Windrush. I should note at this point that this didn't go down well with my wife, Frances, who had always wanted a smooth ride through life and a generous BT pension at the end. Neither was relocating to Norfolk popular with her as she was most attached to the house in Felixstowe. In retrospect it's surprising we stayed together for another 17 years as we had different views on pretty much everything. When times were good we got on well with few serious disagreements, but when they were hard it was for her a constant reminder of what I'd "thrown away".

My joining Windrush as a director was almost followed by the early 1990s recession. We supplied custom computer hardware and software and this was to be an early casualty of the downturn. Within a year of my leaving BT, Windrush was in financial trouble and I was looking for another job. Fortunately it didn't take me long, as nearby in Norfolk there was someone looking for exactly my skill set. And that's the next page in my story.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Grammar school:Grammar school|T-University:University|T-Career1:Working through University|T-Career2:Post Office Telecommunications|T-Career4:CD-Interactive|T-Relationships:Relationships~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career4:CD-Interactive~
