Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Barnet:Pre-school|T-Kent:The move to Kent|T-University:University|T-Music:Favourite music|T-Films:Favourite films~~space:3~Next: ~tid:University~

## Grammar school ##

My list of heroes contains no sportsmen, military figures or politicians. Instead, it includes a disproportionate number of humorists. My favorites would be (in chronological order) Groucho Marx, George Carlin and Douglas Adams, none of whom, in Groucho's words, would have wanted to belong to any club that would admit them as a member. I have for a long time described myself as a Marxist - of the Groucho variety.

Added to this, I was when young a slightly other-worldly type, far too wrapped up in whatever I was doing to notice the passing of time, particularly mealtimes, or even the existence of other people. Maybe I haven't changed that much.

~img:Judd School.jpg:right 50%!nolink~It was with these personality traits that in 1959, having passed my 11-plus examination, I entered a stuffy, traditional, rules-obsessed, single-sex grammar school.

The county of Kent is the last bastion of the grammar school system, where a small proportion of pupils are selected at 11 to receive a superior education which makes them far more likely to later get into university. The Skinners Company maintained (owned?) two such schools, in the neighbouring towns of Tonbridge and Tunbridge Wells. In the latter was the eponymous Skinners School and in the former the Andrew Judd Memorial School. Tunbridge Wells was considered more genteel but Tonbridge had, as well as Judd, the fee-paying Tonbridge School, for sons of the wealthy.

Although we lived closer to Tunbridge Wells my parents chose Judd because the more traditional Skinners School still had classes on Saturday mornings. Keen as they were to see me get a good education, giving up half of each weekend was a sacrifice too far.

Well I got the education, but I can't say they were the best days of my life. The headmaster, one Frank Taylor, was a small, classically-educated martinet rather in the mould of Captain Mainwaring from Dad's Army, who harboured an apparent resentment that it was his fate to head a state school rather than the more prestigious private one on the other side of town. He compensated by enforcing a series of pointless rules designed to confer that missing status, such as the one that required pupils from the age of 13 to wear their straw boaters at all times on their journeys to and from school. Even on the bus.

This was a single-sex school. We were dimly aware of the existence of a nearby girls school but fraternisation was out of the question. They might as well have been another species. We weren't even permitted the 5-minute walk into town at lunchtime, presumably for fear of contamination of some kind. With my working-class roots this was my first introduction to English middle-class values. (As an aside, I eventually observed from my schoolmates how to tell if you are middle-class. It's very simple; if your family has heirlooms you are. If it doesn't, you ain't.)

My first year was a disaster. I came bottom of the class, the reward for which was to be placed in a remedial stream the following year, one for pupils deemed too stupid to be able to manage the higher skills of Latin verb declension. Instead, we had couple of extra Maths classes each week, which had the unintended effect of pushing us away from the Classics and towards Science, developing the ability not just to learn facts but to analyse and think independently.

I was never a keen scholar, always staying just inside the limit of what would be considered acceptable behaviour. Most of the lessons were a chore to be endured rather than enjoyed, though I was more keen on some subjects than others. I remember few of the teachers except my sixth-form chemistry master, Mr Cox. All the teachers had nicknames; his was "Pip", which I eventually discovered referred to the "Cox's Orange Pippin" apple, often regarded as the finest of all varieties. "Pip" was a small, elderly man with a rather abrupt, waspish manner and a memorable collection of phrases he would use regularly, among them "You're not greedy but you like a lot", in response to what misdemeanour I cannot remember. When he marked test papers, those that displeased him would come back with a line drawn diagonally across them and a zero in the bottom corner. He would warn us this was likely to be our fate with the phrase "bottom left, top right, nought". But he certainly cared about chemistry and did his best to force some knowledge of it into our resisting skulls. Some of his teaching methods may have been unorthodox but they were on occasion memorable; one day he passed around a jar containing the most unnatural and evil-smelling liquid I have ever encountered, but at least I won't forget the name Benzonitrile. This kind of diversion made a change from sitting at the back, blowing into my Bunsen Burner tube and watching all the others in the classroom go out.

The traditional mission of the school was not to provide a balanced education but to turn out sportsmen, army Non-Commissioned Officers and good solid middle-class Conservative burghers. I fell in naturally with a small group of rebels who, though careful to stay sufficiently under the radar to avoid the risk of expulsion, avoided doing anything the way it was expected of us. We refused to join sports teams, sing at Prayers, play soldiers in the school cadet corps or become prefects, referring to that august group as the Creepers Club. When the General Election was held in 1966 (returning Labour's Harold Wilson as Prime Minister) the school held a mock election with official Labour and Conservative candidates and it was made quite clear that the latter was expected to win. Our ringleader stood as a Communist and the rest of our small group supported him, a heresy that nearly saw the end of schooling for all of us.

I should point out that I was always a follower, lacking the courage to be a ringleader like my friend Simon. One day he turned up at school with a tin of flash powder, that highly inflammable mixture of aluminium and magnesium powders used in the early days of photography. Since as a group we held in disdain the competitive sporting jocks with their loud, boastful talk and the school's love of military symbolism, we hatched up a plan to burn a huge peace symbol into the middle of the cricket pitch. ~img:CND.png:left 25%!nolink~So we sneaked out there one quiet break period and carefully laid down the entire contents of the tin into the required pattern, ten feet across. Simon applied a lit match and up it went with a most satisfying whoosh! We ran for cover but amazingly nobody had noticed a thing; not even the numerous prefects, who were of no help in the search for the guilty parties, being too busy bullying first-formers. Needless to say this adventure was not met with approval by the school authorities, but although they had their suspicions they couldn't identify the culprits and we got away with it.

The symbol eventually faded out as the grass grew so no permanent harm was done, just some temporary ruffled pride. Some might call our actions a proportionate response to perceived oppression, in the defence of deeply-held principles; others will label them an act of pure vandalism.

In spite of all this teenage rebellion I managed to net a decent clutch of 'O' and  'A' levels, sufficient to get me into university. My parting act of defiance was to choose an engineering course at the City University, newly promoted from Northampton Polytechnic, rather than the expected arts course at a red-brick university (my grades weren't good enough for Oxbridge). The punishment for this was exclusion from the annual University Entrance list painted onto wooden panels surrounding the school Chapel. As far as Judd was concerned I was a non-person.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Barnet:Pre-school|T-Kent:The move to Kent|T-University:University|T-Music:Favourite music|T-Films:Favourite films~~space:3~Next: ~tid:University~


