Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Barnet:Pre-school|T-Kent:The move to Kent|T-Grammar school:Grammar school|T-Career1:My first career|T-Relationships:Relationships|T-Music:Favourite music|T-Films:Favourite films~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career1:My first career~

## University ##

In 1968 I scraped enough 'A' levels to get me into university. The tradition at my school was for pupils to go into Arts, choosing Oxford or Cambridge if their grades were good or a respectable red-brick otherwise. I did none of these things, plumping instead for an engineering course at one of the polytechnics that had just been promoted to university status. The culture at the Judd School saw engineering as a variety of manual labour, and universities that offered engineering courses were just grubby technical colleges. How things have changed.

I didn't go straight from school to university. Instead, I accepted an offer of employment from the South Eastern Electicity Board, these being in the days way before such things were privatised. The deal was they would put me onto a "thin sandwich" university course which would then launch me into a glittering career as an Engineer. Or so the plan went. More on that later. They offered a choice of universites, all of them former polytechnics. Their favourite was Sussex University, the former Brighton Poly, but City and Brunel were also on the list, the latter being in west London.

I chose the City University, formerly Northampton Polytechnic, in the middle of London. No leafy, spacious campus here for students to while away dreamy hours in splendid isolation from the real world. The financial heart of the country is just down the road and the West End a short Tube ride away. Perhaps not the obvious place to study engineering but I never thought about that at the time. The term "sandwich course" referred to the way it was structured, with (if I remember correctly) 6 months at university and 6 months at work, this being repeated a number of times with a final complete year at university. Instead of the usual 3-year degree course this made it 5 years so I was 23 by the time I left in 1971. A long time, yes, but the big draw was the fact that we got paid during the work periods; much better than being a typical penniless student.

At City we engineers were aware of there being Arts students doing (in our eyes) cissy courses like law, economics or business studies, but we had little contact with them outside of student Rag week. We were there to work; they appeared to spend most of their time socialising, learning how to become politicians and generally having a good time. This naturally made us the superior species, but looking back I expect they saw us as pathetic geeks and hopeless losers.

While not studying I was embarking on what proved to be one of my life's more notable failures. For several years I'd had a girlfriend, one Kay Taylor, a year or so younger than me. Her mother and mine were colleagues from way back and hers had been a bridesmaid at my parents wedding. We'd sort of drifted together in family visits during our early teens and it had been assumed that we'd eventually get married. Neither of us had the experience or insight to question this assumption. After my first year at the college Hall of Residence I was renting a fairly appalling bedsit in Islington for the second year, so getting married, with parental help to buy a small maisonette in Penge, seemed an attractive option. 

So we tied the knot. I commuted every day to the City and she to Lewisham College, where she was studying catering. The lack of a social life on an engineering course was no longer an issue, if it ever had been, but much of my time was taken up with travelling to college or back to Tunbridge Wells during the work part of the year.

I'm surprised by how little I can remember about my college days, either in or out of the classroom. I recall taking part in an inter-college film competition, where we decided that our subject would be the piracy of our Hall of Residence, a 17-story block on Bunhill Row overlooking the Whitbread Brewery, both of which have since been demolished as part of the Barbican project. (Or maybe because of the state we left them in.) In our film the pirates towed the building away, though how we imagined we could film this successfully with a single 16mm camera and little in the way of acting, directorial or editing talent will be forever a mystery. Needless to say, our film came somewhere near last in the competition.

While not in classes I spent much of my first year in the Hall of Residence partaking in stupid pranks. The Hall had a single telephone at the porter's desk and if a call came in for one of the residents it would be announced over the Tannoy. The porter was not the sharpest tool in the box, as we quickly discovered, so one of us would go out to a nearby call box and ring in. Over the Tannoy would come "Telephone call for Miss Dinah Soar", or "Terry Dactil" and we'd all collapse in helpless laughter. These having been my formative years I still find this kind of stuff funny, explaining my love of The Goon Show and Monty Python's Flying Circus. 

Other pranks usually involved water, either tying plastic bags filled with the stuff to the door handle of a friend's room, ready to fall off when the door was opened, or dropping similar bags from our 13th floor windows so they would explode on the ground next to people checking the engines of cars parked below.

The only moment of true distinction was at one of the occasional events held in the ballroom on the ground floor. The Students Union was always short of funds so it booked the cheapest bands it could find, and on this occasion it was an outfit called Love Affair, a typically inexperienced bunch who had nonetheless had the good fortune to come up with a really catchy number, "Everlasting Love", which propelled them to the number one spot a few days before the night of our event.

<div style="text-align:center" ><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JaYTNsS_m2w" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

It was chaos. Half of London turned up at the door and people milled about everywhere. The Student Union organisers had planned for the usual hundred or so but a Number One hit is a different matter. I tried to get into the room at one point but was put off by the sheer crush. I could hear, though, and it was quite apparent that this band were a One Hit Wonder. They were hopeless playing live - even their signature number was almost unrecognisable.

We did slightly better a couple of years later, inviting John Cleese to do a stand-up performance in the main college. I can't remember much about it except that although he was funny he seemed to be rather aggressive, as if resenting the need to perform in front of such a miserable crowd of utter pillocks. Who could blame him, though.

At the end of my 5 year "sandwich" course I graduated with a Lower Second, or in other words, Just Scraped It. Fortunately it was enough. And that was the end of university. Off I went, a young graduate know-it-all, to my first job.

Links: ~select:-:Select a subject!selected disabled hidden|T-Barnet:Pre-school|T-Kent:The move to Kent|T-Grammar school:Grammar school|T-Career1:My first career|T-Relationships:Relationships|T-Music:Favourite music|T-Films:Favourite films~~space:3~Next: ~tid:Career1:My first career~
