Sidney: 1885-1961 (76 years). Born: Croydon

Kate Elizabeth Carter: 1886-1963 (77 years). Born: Kingston

Married: Epsom, March 1908

Sons: Victor and ~sid:Ronald~

~img:Kate and Sid.jpg:right 25%~These were my grandparents; my father's parents. I didn't know them well as they weren't very approachable people. Although we lived not too far away from their dreary house in Upton Park, London, with its dark wood-panelled walls and ancient, uncomfortable furniture, we didn't visit very often and I don't believe they ever came out to see us in Elm Park, in Essex. When I was 5 we moved down into Kent so the visits because even less frequent. Nan and Grandad eventually became too old and infirm to manage their house, so my Dad bought a small property for them in Tunbridge Wells, They hated it there as Nan had been dragged away from her Church and Grandad from whatever kept him wanting to stay alive with his obsessive killjoy of a wife (I'm told he had a gambling addiction; that would explain it). Grandad died not long after and Nan went into a nursing home in Ripon, at the other end of the country, for her final years.

Nan - Kate - had early on become the victim of an extreme religious cult called The Assemblies of God. I know not if she practised the standard teachings of that group or had her own version of it, so I may be doing them a disservice. But whether they know how extreme she was and did nothing, or were so lacking in community spirit they knew nothing, either way it was a life wasted in a constant self-imposed battle to guarantee herself a reserved place in Heaven.

Nan's interpretation of the Scriptures led her to believe that all pleasure was sinful, so life was conducted without radio, friends, days out or books apart from the Bible. Attendance at church was required on a daily basis and several times on Sundays, both for herself and for her 2 sons, though I'm sure her husband found ways to escape the regime.

Little is known about Grandpa Sid. When the First World War started he was 29 and would have been called up but for the fact that he was employed as a ships' tally clerk in London Docks, a reserved occupation. He was in that generation who lived through both World Wars, though by the time the second one started he was already 56 years old so presumably beyond the reach of the draft. However, given that he lived and worked in the East End of London through the Blitz this was barely a safer place to be than on the battlefields of Europe.

In his later years he developed emphysema and became a somewhat silent, reclusive figure. Few photographs appear ever to have been taken.

Sons: Victor and ~sid:Ronald~
