# Memories

~img:memories-1.jpg:left 10%~This is all that remains of Mum's reminiscences; 3 pages written in pencil in an old notebook. Her neat handwriting deteriorated later in life so these were probably written some time around the 1950s or 1960s while her main job was looking after the house and two young sons. A stray word at the top of the first page suggests there were once more pages before it.

<hr>~img:memories-2.jpg:right 25%~<b>&ldquo;</b>I can see myself sitting at the table with a notebook and pencil which my Mother had bought for me from a door to door salesman.

In 1927 when I was 5 we moved to Chingford, to a new terrace house at 19 Albert Avenue. Chingford was a rapidly expanding suburb and our road ended in fields which were very soon to be covered with small houses. The house backed south and perhaps that is where my lifelong insistence on having houses that backed south began.

My father had been an instrument maker during the first world war which was why he was never called up. I believe he did try to enlist once and took "the King's shilling" for doing so, but his employer soon put a stop to that because I suppose it was a 'reserved' occupation. But he must have left that work sometime after the war ended because he and two other men bought a bus and ran a local bus service presumably in Edmonton. The buses were called pirate buses and were probably a thorn in the flesh of the more regular bus companies.

In 1927 he was bought out by one of those companies which I think was known as the 'Public' bus company. Their motto was Pro Bono Publico which was probably where they got their name. But the sale of that bus provided the £50 needed for the deposit on a £500 terrace house at Chingford.

~img:memories-3.jpg:right 25%~The house consisted of a sitting room in the front which was always known as the 'front' room and which contained a brand new 3 piece suite covered in blue damask and a blue carpet with a ring of flowers on it. No doubt these were also acquired with proceeds from the bus. That room was my mother's pride and joy and was only used at Christmas and other festive occasions when the fire would be lit and the slender brass fire irons would be put to use. And as the front room contained the piano that was the only time it was played. We were also allowed to retreat there in a heatwave when the back of the house became too hot to bear.

I had started school at Edmonton the previous Easter or Whitsun and I have only vague memories of a classroom with high windows and a large fireplace. I remember if one bought sweets to school they had to be put on the mantlepiece until one went home. I can also remember being found out by my father of taking taking a piece of rubber from the school and the ensuing row about it, and of being comforted by a kindly neighbour although I have no recollection of who she was. Perhaps that was when I learned my first lesson in always being completely honest.

My school in Chingford was in New Road which at that time was an unmade road and extremely muddy at times. I can remember the boots I wore which my father had to repair from time to time. The memory of that school is very hazy though I do remember a history teacher named Miss Pickles. It was while I was at that school that the slump became really acute and although my father didn't lose his job his wages were reduced and he couldn't pay the mortgage. I remember the shock of seeing my father in tears and my mother trying to comfort him. It was then that my mother wrote to Mr Gunner her employer during the first world war, when she worked as a manageress at one of his grocers shops. He gave her a job as a shop assistant at his shop at the Bakers Arms Leytonstone.~img:memories-4.jpg:right 25%~

It wasn't a happy time because the hours were very long and very often we three children were alone until one or other of our parents came home. It was during that time that, while larking about, Margaret my sister broke her collar bone. I think we were doing some kind of acrobatics. One of our games was to taking a running slide on a mat along the polished lino of the hall and landing with a bump at the front door. And the banisters provided us with a climbing frame. That period lasted for two years until Christmas Eve when Mum had to work until 11 o'clock at night and Dad stormed down to the shop and insisted she gave up the job.

I suppose by then things were improving and we were able to manage on his pay. He started making necklaces with crystal beads and gold wire. I suppose he must have made some money out of it because it went on for a long time. Mum made most of our clothes but there weren't many really new ones. A lot of the materials came from Aunt Rosa's family who were older and some of whom were working (but that must have been after she came back from Australia).<b>&rdquo;</b><hr>

The account finishes here. Perhaps she meant to write more but never found the time.
